Title: The Game of Chess

 
Abstract:

This project introduces a Pygame-based chess game with a structured class system for each piece type, 
including Pawn, Bishop, Knight, Rook, King, and Queen. The Pawn class features a promotion function 
allowing it to transform into any non-King piece upon reaching the opposing board end. The game includes 
mechanisms for piece capture and checkmate detection, ending upon checkmate. A Player class manages 
player attributes, colors, available pieces, and forfeit options. This implementation showcases 
object-oriented design and advanced chess functionalities within a concise framework meeting all the 
technical requirements such as unittesting, UML diagrams, documentations, etc.



Chess game using pygame.
Class for each type of piece in the game.
Pawn, Bishop, Knight, Rook, King, Queen.
Piece class, with child classes for each of the types of pieces.
The pawn will have a function in it's class to be able to turn
into any other piece it chooses (other than a king) if it reaches the other end of the board.
Each piece will have a way to be taken off the board if it is taken by another piece.
If the king is in checkmate, the game will end.
Player class with 2 possible players; keeps track of what color each player is and what pieces that have available to them. 
Also give each player the option to foreit the game.

The project will use object oriented design and utilize the pygame
library to create a functional chess game. The game will have various
classes and modules for things such as keeping track of the board, 
players' color and moves, and possible movement for each of the different 
types of pieces in the game. The classes for each piece will have unique
movement sets and abilities and inherit from a parent class Piece. The
presentation will include a demonstration of the working game and an 
explanation of how all the segments of the code work together to create
a functional game. The aim of this presentation is to demonstrate the 
importance of object oriented design in programming and how it is able
to improve the efficiency, readability, and reusability of code.